Extensions/v0.7 extensions (#86)
kwilteam/docs: docs/extensions/cross-chain-data/example_pt_2.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: Should everything in this document that says "oracle" change to "event listener"?

In the extensions overview, we define an oracle as "event listener + resolution". In this page, we describe the event listeners. It seems weird to call these oracles here?

sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: "Example Pt. 2: Ethereum Event Listener"
id: oracle-example-part-2
title: "Example Pt. 2: Ethereum Event Listener"
description: "Create a simple oracle that listens to EVM events, and credits an account when a log is heard."
slug: /extensions/oracle-example-part-2
---

In this tutorial, we will build a simple oracle that listens to EVM events, and credits an account when a log is heard.
The oracle will be configured to listen to a specific contract address, and will listen to the EVM event signature `Credit(address,uint256)`

> This tutorial builds on the concepts introduced in this tutorial's [part 1](/docs/extensions/oracle-example-part-1),
> and uses the resolution created there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses concepts and code from the resolution extension introduced in this [part 1: example Kwil credits](/docs/extensions/oracle-example-part-1).
```

**This tutorial is for example purposes only, and should not be used in production.** Production implementations should account for transient network failures,
subscription disconnections, Ethereum reorgs, and other edge cases. For a production-ready implementation of this oracle, please refer to the [Kwil EVM Oracle](<https://github.com/kwilteam/kwil-db/tree/main/extensions/listeners/eth_deposits>) that is
included in all Kwil nodes by default.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes that the user is familiar with the following concepts:
- [The account credit resolution tutorial](/docs/extensions/oracle-example-part-1)
- [Building a custom Kwil node with extensions](/docs/extensions/building-kwild-with-extensions)
- [Running a Kwil node locally](/docs/node/quickstart#single-node)
- Deploying a smart contract to Ethereum

## Step 1. Querying Ethereum

To get started, we will first need a way to query the Ethereum blockchain for new events. We will use the popular `go-ethereum` library, which is the
main implementation of Ethereum. We will use this library to connect to an Ethereum node, subscribe to new blocks, and query for logs.

> The below code relies on the `AccountCreditResolution` struct and the `CreditAccountEventType` constant from [part 1](/docs/extensions/oracle-example-part-1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code below relies on the `AccountCreditResolution` struct and the `CreditAccountEventType` constant from [part 1](/docs/extensions/oracle-example-part-1).
```

	}
	defer client.Close()

	headers := make(chan *types.Header)
	sub, err := client.SubscribeNewHead(ctx, headers)
	if err != nil {
		return fmt.Errorf("eth_oracle: failed to subscribe to new block headers: %w", err)
	}
	defer sub.Unsubscribe()

	// we will now listen for new blocks and process them
	// if the context is cancelled, we will stop listening
	for {
		select {
		case <-ctx.Done():
			return nil
		case err := <-sub.Err():
			return fmt.Errorf("eth_oracle: subscription error: %w", err)
		case header := <-headers:
			err := processBlock(ctx, eventstore, client, header.Number.Int64(), contractAddress)
			if err != nil {
				return fmt.Errorf("eth_oracle: failed to process block: %w", err)
			}
		}
	}
}
```

## Step 3. Configuration

In order to run the oracle, each Kwil node will need to configure an Ethereum RPC provider and smart contract address to listen to.
This can be done in each node's local `config.toml` file:

```toml title="config.toml"
# ...
[app.extensions.eth_oracle]
rpc_provider = "https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR_INFURA_API_KEY"
contract_address = "0xYOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS"
# ...
```

> The values set here will be read in by the oracle, and used to connect to the Ethereum network and listen to the specified contract address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The oracle will read in the values set in `config.toml`, using them to connect to the Ethereum network and listen to the specified contract address.
```

> ## Step 4. Register the Oracle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4. Register the Event Listener
```

> Register the oracle with the Kwil node. This is done by calling the `RegisterOracle` function in the package's `init` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register the oracle with the Kwil node. This is done by calling the `RegisterListener` function in the package's `init` function.
```
